Linked Data

Linked Data allows us to connect the information in Chronicling America directly to related data on the Web explicitly. Chronicling America provides several Linked Data views to make it easy to connect with other information resources and to process and analyze newspaper information with conceptual precision.

We use concepts like Title (defined in DCMI Metadata Terms) and Issue (defined in the Bibliographic Ontology) to describe newspaper titles and issues available in the data. Using these concepts, defined in existing ontologies, can help to ensure that what we mean by "title" and "issue" is consistent with the intent of other publishers of linked data. We also define other concepts not already defined in existing ontologies. This vocabulary includes elements suitable for newspaper information and the NDNP program, including these elements:

    Awardee
    Batch
    Page
    bag
    number
    section
    sequence

These elements are used in RDF views of several types of pages, ranging from a list of the newspaper titles available on the site and information about each, to enumerations of all the pages that make up each issue and all of the files available for each page.

Examples:

    /lccn/sn85038615.rdf
    information about The Times Dispatch (Richmond, Va.) 1903-1914
    /lccn/sn83045555/1889-11-21/ed-1.rdf
    information about the November 21, 1889 first edition issue of Deseret Evening News (Great Salt Lake City [Utah])
    /lccn/sn83030214/1905-01-15/ed-1/seq-25.rdf
    details about all of the files associated with the 25th image of the January 15, 1905 issue of New-York Tribune (New York [N.Y.]) 1886-1924
    /awardees/mohi.rdf
    information about awardee State Historical Society of Missouri
    /newspapers.rdf
    list of available newspaper titles

Comparing the RDF versions of the links above with their HTML counterpart links, you might notice that the URI pattern we follow for these views is to remove the final slash, replacing it with ".rdf". We follow this pattern to comply with best practices for publishing linked data, and also to keep the URIs easy to understand and use.

For each of the HTML pages with a linked data counterpart in RDF, we provide links to those alternate views from the HTML page using the LINK header element. This can support automating the process of using the RDF data in tools like bookmarklets, plugins, and scripts, and it also helps us to advertise the availability of the additional views. In many views, such as newspaper page images, we also provide LINK elements pointing to the various available files (image, text, OCR coordinate XML) for each available page or other potentially useful information. We encourage you to explore the entire site and to look for and use these LINK elements if you find them useful when working with NDNP data. Just follow your nose, and view the source.

In addition to the concepts describe above, we use concepts from several other vocabularies in describing NDNP materials and also in linking to related data available on other sites. These additional vocabularies and external sites include:

    DBpedia
    Dublin Core and DCMI Terms
    FRBR concepts in RDF
    GeoNames
    LCCN Permalink
    lingvoj.org
    OAI-ORE (more about aggregations below)
    OWL
    RDA
    WorldCat

We are grateful to all of these providers and we hope we can follow their lead in encouraging additional connections between data and vocabulary providers. Please be aware that how we use these vocabularies will likely change over time, as they continue to develop, and as new vocabularies are introduced.